hey you can welcome back to another
episode of full spectrum survival I want
to talk to you today about something
that we use every week at the homestead
it's an item that is well worth its
weight and something that every frugal
minded person should consider to lessen
the range that big the industry has on
us and our families not to mention some
of the horrible chemicals that are put
into store bought goods to keep them
fresh and tasting good longer we do a
lot of our baking here at home and in
doing so we bake a lot of our own bread
bread for us today is as much of a
staple for our groups as it has been
since time recorded and as you who have
tried it no baking your own bread or
your own goods from scratch is a very
rewarding skill to learn is one more
step of independence for something that
is consumed the world over and instead
of finding a corporation's taste that
you like or a price that you can afford
you know you can try thousands of
recipes some of them extremely easy and
cheap to find a taste that you not only
like the want to feed to your family it
gives you one more reason not to buy a
mass-produced loaf and save that much
more money on your grocery bills now
when baking bread the starchild within
the flour gelatinized is at 150 degrees
this process is what gives freshly baked
goods they're soft and smooth texture a
deterrent that we found for many people
wanted to replace store-bought bread was
that it would still you know within
hours or days from baking that's because
it lacked the chemical preservatives to
keep it soft for that much longer now
this stale in process is called
retrogradation it occurs because the
gelled starch molecules that are formed
within the baking process at various
stages of cooling they release the water
that's absorbed back into the air and
returns 0 starts to its original
hardened texture now since the time the
baked bread began there have been two
major adversaries towards its creation
one was its ambient surroundings and two
were bugs or creepy crawlies that get
into it now bugs and mice say you guys
know where major problems for early
household and so they used to build a
box of bread box to keep it in and keep
the bugs out early bread makers found
that keeping their bread in these boxes
would help to maintain a more constant
temperature in a more constant level of
humidity allowing the bread to say
softer longer by mitigating the
retrograde ation process which made a
better product for everyone
and so the modern breadbox was born and
made a constant in almost every
household now bread boxes they come in
all shapes sizes and prices but they all
have two major functions they keep the
larger more problems some creatures out
of your baked goods and two they allow a
small enough amount of airflow to keep
mold from forming but they don't allow
enough airflow to quicken them stealing
process now bread like I said is a
staple for us I hope you guys get out
there and try making your own love so
I'm sure many of you already have I hope
you guys try a bread box if you have
bread the new bake often it really keeps
it twice as long at least I know a loaf
in our house doesn't go on more than a
couple of days without being consumed
but if you guys need some easy recipes
or anything or want to know about the
bread boxes that we have be sure to let
us know we can give you some recipes
that are really only three or four
ingredients you put it there it's really
foil proof make it put it right in the
oven and it's done guys as always we
appreciate the comments if you like this
video please like it and if you have any
questions don't hesitate to let us know
thanks